# anmaha.github.io/ConnectFour

## **Connect Four Game** in HTML, CSS, and Javascript

### The Basics of Connect Four
Connect Four is a two player game played on 6 x 7 board.
The goal is to get four stones in a row: horizontally, vertically, or diagnolly. 
Players take turns placing their stones (one color for each player), building up a wall.
The first player to get four stones in a row, or to CONNECT FOUR, wins!
If the board is filled without either player winning, the game ends in a draw.

### The HTML and CSS
This game is made to be played in a web browser.  The two players are designated by the stone color, in this case Red and Yellow.
The HTML is straightforward: a div to hold the gameboard and a div for the game status, player turn and game result.
There is a Restart Game button to clear the board of stones and begin the game again.
The CSS is used to give a size and color to the game board and the individual gameboard squares generated by the javascript.  I used a flex design for the gameboard and made each of the 42 gameboard squares with an aspect ratio of 1:1. By making each square 1/7 the width of the board, the squares display neatly in a 6 x 7 grid. The style of each square is made into a circle with a border and a white background against the blue game board.  When the game begins, all the squares are White to simulate an empty game board. As each player takes a turn dropping a stone into the game board, the color of the circle is set to Red or Yellow according to the current player. 

### The Javascript
The javascript is the engine that drives this web browser game.  
Upon loading the webpade, the gameboard is created by creating the 42 squares of the gameboard, each with a consecutive id.  
An event listener is attached to each square so that the players can click where they want to place their respective stones. 
When a square is clicked by a player, the clicked square is changes color from White to the color of the currrent player, Red or Yellow, to simulate the player dropping a Red or Yellow stone into place in the game board.  
The color of the placed stone is stored in a 1D game state array, with the color of the stone stored the game state array at the same index as the id number of the clicked square. The game state array is checked before each move to determine if a square if filled or if there is a winner. 
The players can only place stones on top of other stones and once a stone is dropped in the gameboard another cannot be dropped into that square.
The game state array is used to check for a CONNECT FOUR.  The game state array is checked against an array of hard coded winning combinations.
The game ends when one player wins or the board is filled without either player winning. Otherwise the game continues
Once a player takes a turn it is the other player's turn to place a stone in the gameboard. The player alternate placing their stones until the game ends.
The game can be played again but clicking the Restart Button.
The game board squares are set to White to simulate an empty gameboard. The the game state array is cleared so the players can drop their respective stones into the gameboard.

### Help on my game
I found a tutorial on making a TIC TAC TOE game really useful. The tutorial broke down the game to into functions and I did the same thing. 


